get started: prepare data pipelines for the 1.0 (#1450)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/tutorials/get-started/data-pipelines.md

<details>

> ### 💡Expand to see what happens under the hood

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 💡 Expand to see what happens under the hood
```

  +   │   └── prepared
  +   │       ├── test.tsv
  +   │       └── train.tsv
  +   ├── dvc.yaml
  +   ├── dvc.lock
      ├── params.yaml
      └── src
          ├── ...
  ```

- The last line, `python src/prepare.py ...`, is the command to run in this
  stage, and it's saved to the stage file, as shown below.

The resulting stage `prepare` in the `dvc.yaml` contains all of the information
above:

```yaml
stages:
  prepare:
    cmd: python src/prepare.py data/data.xml
    deps:
      - data/data.xml
      - src/prepare.py
    params:
      - prepare.seed
      - prepare.split
    outs:
      - data/prepared
```

</details>

There's no need to use `dvc add` for DVC to track stage outputs (`data/prepared`
in this case); `dvc run` already took care of this. You only need to run
`dvc push` if you want to save them to
[remote storage](/doc/tutorials/get-started/data-versioning#storing-and-sharing),
(usually along with `git commit` to version the stage file itself):

> ## Dependency graphs (DAGs)

Reviewer: Why `.` -> `:` here?

Author: a bug

commands that gets to a desired result. This is what we call a _data pipeline_
or [_dependency graph_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph).

Let's create a second stage chained to the outputs of `prepare`, to perform
feature extraction:

```dvc
$ dvc run -n featurize \
          -p featurize.max_features,featurize.ngrams \
          -d src/featurization.py -d data/prepared \
          -o data/features \
          python src/featurization.py \

>                  data/prepared data/features

Reviewer: It fits in one line though, maybe easier to read?

Author: will take a look

```

> The `dvc.yaml` is updated automatically and should include two stages now.
> 
> And should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dvc.yaml` file is updated automatically and should include two stages
now.
```

Reviewer: Removed the last sentence since the next section starts with "changes to the `dvc.yaml` should look like this" again.

<details>

> ### 💡Expand to see what happens under the hood

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 💡 Expand to see what happens under the hood
```

The changes to the `dvc.yaml` should look like this:

> ```diff
> stages:
>   prepare:
>     cmd: python src/prepare.py data/data.xml
>     deps:
>     - data/data.xml
>     - src/prepare.py
>     params:
>     - prepare.seed
>     - prepare.split
>     outs:
>     - data/prepared
> +  featurize:

Reviewer: Maybe replace some lines with `...`?
```suggestion
```diff
stages:
  ...
    outs:
    - data/prepared
+  featurize:
```

Author: nah, would keep it as is - it's hidden, os it's fine to be explicit

+    cmd: python src/featurization.py data/prepared data/features
+    deps:
+    - data/prepared
+    - src/featurization.py
+    params:
+    - featurize.max_features
+    - featurize.ngrams
+    outs:
+    - data/features
```

</details>

<details>

> ### ⚙️ Expand to add more stages

Reviewer: Not sure how 2 expandable sections next to each other read.

Author: should look fine

Let's add the training itself. Nothing new this time, the same `dvc run` command
with the same set of options:

```dvc
$ dvc run -n train \
          -p train.seed,train.n_estimators \
          -d src/train.py -d data/features \
          -o model.pkl \
          python src/train.py data/features model.pkl
```

> Please, check the `dvc.yaml` again, it should have plus one stage now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please check the `dvc.yaml` again, it should have one more stage now.
```

</details>

This should be a good point to commit the changes with Git. This include

> `.gitignore`, `dvc.lock`, and `dvc.yaml` — which describes our pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.gitignore`, `dvc.lock`, and `dvc.yaml` — which describe our pipeline.
```

## Reproduce

The whole point of creating this `dvc.yaml` pipeline file is an ability to

> reproduce it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reproduce the pipeline:
```
?

```dvc
$ dvc repro
```

<details>

> ### ⚙️ Expand to make some fun with it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### ⚙️ Expand to have some fun with it
```
🙂

Reviewer: I like this title but so is this whole expandable section optional? Seems to me it has lots of key info.

Author: for get started it's not the point to be very verbose I think, but we can iterate on this later

Let's try to play a little bit with it. First, let's try to change one of the
parameters for the training stage:

```dvc
$ vim params.yaml
```

Change `n_estimators` to `100` and run `dvc repro`, you should see:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
Stage 'prepare' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'featurize' didn't change, skipping
Running stage 'train' with command: ...
```

> It's detected that only training should be run and skipped everything else! All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DVC detected that only `train` should be run, and skipped everything else! All
```

the intermediate results are being reused.

Now, let's change it back to `50` and run `dvc repro` again:

```dvc
$ dvc repro
Stage 'prepare' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'featurize' didn't change, skipping
Restored stage 'train' from run-cache
```

Same as before, no need to run `prepare`, `featurize`, etc ... but, it doesn't

> run even `train` again this time! It cached the previous run with the same set
> of inputs (parameters + data) and reused it now!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run even `train` again this time either! It cached the previous run with the same set
of inputs (parameters + data) and reused it.
```

</details>

<details>

> ### 💡Expand to see what happens under the hood

Reviewer: Again curious about expandable sections one after another.

p.s. haven't looked at the actual rendered page.

Author: they work fine I think

> `dvc.repro` relies on the DAG definition that it reads from the `dvc.yaml` file
> and also on the `dvc.lock` file to determine what exactly needs to be run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dvc repro` relies on the DAG definition that it reads from `dvc.yaml`,
and uses `dvc.lock` to determine what exactly needs to be run.
```

> `dvc.lock` file is similar to `.dvc` files and captures hashes (in most cases
> `md5`s) of the dependencies, values of the parameters that were used, it can be
> considered a _state_ of the pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dvc.lock` file is similar to `.dvc` files and captures file hashes (
`md5` fields) of the dependencies, values of the parameters that were used. It can be
considered a _state_ of the pipeline:
```

Reviewer: Not sure about term "state" here since it overlaps with `dvc status`.

Author: can discuss this next time :)

```yaml
prepare:
  cmd: python src/prepare.py data/data.xml
  deps:
    - path: data/data.xml
      md5: a304afb96060aad90176268345e10355
    - path: src/prepare.py
      md5: 77e2041452ffabc457e37e54674fc8a5
  params:
    params.yaml:
      prepare.seed: 20170428
      prepare.split: 0.2
```

> `dvc status` command can be used to compare this state with an actual state of
> the workspace.

</details>

> DVC pipelines - `dvc.yaml` file and `dvc.repro`, `dvc run` commands - solve a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DVC pipelines (`dvc.yaml` file, `dvc run`, and `dvc repro` commands) solve a
```

few important problems:

- _Automation_ - run sequence of steps in a "smart" way that makes iterating on
  the project faster. It automatically determines which parts of a project need

>   to be run, it caches "runs" and results - all to avoid running the same stage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to be run, it caches "runs" and results — all to avoid running the same stage
```
